Zachary Heth
Professor Binsted
Homework 2
Part C

Farmer, Wolf, Goat, Cabbage
Strategy:
	The losing conditions are the wolf being left alone with the cabbage and the goat being left alone with the cabbage. Therefore the Farmer should only cross river so that the side he leaves behind is not in a losing state. That means the first move must be to bring the goat across, (or cross alone, but the farmer will just have to cross back). After the goat, either the wolf or cabbage can cross. After the farmer brings the wolf/cabbage, he must bring the goat with him back to the start, or else the goat will be alone with the wolf/cabbage. Then the farmer can cross with the cabbage/wolf to the goal side, come back and get the goat.	

Number of States: 
	Each character (farmer, wolf…) can be in one of two positions, the initial side of the river or the goal side. Since there are four characters, since there are four characters the number of possible states is 2^4 = 16 states	

Water Jugs
Strategy
	Only the 5 gallon jug can hold the amount of water for the goal state (4 gallons). This means the last move will involve pouring water out of the 5 gallon jug, or pouring 3 gallons into the 5 gallon jug with 1 gallon already inside. Going with the first strategy, 
	To reach 4 gallons, 1 gallon must be removed from the 5 gallon jug. To measure out exactly 1 gallon, the 3 gallon jug should be holding 2 gallons of water. It is possible to measure 2 gallons of water by pouring out from a full 5 gallon jug into the 3 gallon jug. There will be 2 gallons remaining in the 5 gallon jug. Then the 3 gallon jug can be emptied, and the 2 gallons poured into the 3 gallon jug.

Number of States:
	The 5 gallon jug has 6 states, and the 3 gallon jug has 4 states (must include 0). This means there are a total of 
	6 * 4 = 24 states

8-puzzle (I refer to numbers as “tiles”, sorry)
Strategy: 
	We want to move each tile into the correct position in the minimum number of moves. A greedy strategy might involve taking the most direct path for a tile that is out of place, to the correct position. For subsequent moves, it would be best to try and move tiles, without interfering with tiles already in the correct position. If there is no other choice, then we can ensure that tiles make it back to their original position by moving groups together. Tiles can be moved by rotating in a clockwise or counterclockwise pattern. When a rotation is complete, tiles should be back where they started. However, tiles that are not a part of the rotation can be swapped in for another one. This means that out of place tiles can be put into the correct position without interfering with tiles already in the correct position.

Number of States:
	All nine tiles (1-8 and the blank tile) can be in any of the nine positions
	Thus the number of possible states is =
	9! = 362880 states